# Changes in Release 0.6

Release 0.6 added three new configuration modules, strict checking of module parameters, and OSPF link roles.

Release 0.6.1 added support for FRR running in Docker container under **containerlab** and an installation playbook (**install.libvirt**)

Release 0.6.2 fixed a number of bugs.

Release 0.6.3 added support for Cumulus VX and squashed a few more bugs. We also restructured and rewrote the documentation.

## New Devices

* FRR version 7.5.0 running as a container within **containerlab**.
* Cumulus VX running as a VM on Virtualbox or libvirt.

See [Supported Platforms](../platforms.md) for more details.

## New Configuration Modules

* [BGP configuration module](../module/bgp.md)
* [IS-IS configuration module](../module/isis.md)
* [Segment Routing with MPLS](../module/sr-mpls.md)

## Changes to Existing Configuration Modules

* [Use OSPF link roles](../module/ospf.md#using-link-roles) to exclude links from the OSPF process, or to make an OSPF interface passive.

## New Utility Playbooks

* **create-config.ansible** playbook (**netlab initial -o** since release 0.8) creates device configurations without deploying them

## Other Changes

* Module-specific data transformations (used by OSPF, BGP, and IS-IS)
* Strict checking of module parameters on global, node, link, and node-on-link levels

## Bug fixes

* Include topology defaults (**topology-defaults.yml**) from topology directory or user's home directory
* Disable OpenSSH host key checking in **ansible.cfg**
* Make Arista EOS box name consistent between *Virtualbox* and *libvirt*
* Use **interface unnumbered hello mask** configuration command on Arista EOS only when a device has unnumbered OSPF interfaces.
* Remove unnecessary **import** statements
* Fix class inheritance in module-specific data transformations
* FRR configuration deployment uses **bash** or **vtysh** as needed, resulting in simpler configuration templates.
* **connect.sh** passes command-line arguments to **docker exec** and **ssh** -- you can connect directly to FRR configuration daemon in an FRR container with **connect.sh _name_ vtysh**
* The easiest way to get a Nexus 9300v *libvirt* box is to mutate a *virtualbox* one.
* Installation playbook required Vagrant plugin file to work properly. Removed that dependency.
* Installation playbook installs Ansible collections for all supported network devices.
* Add a hack to run vSRX and Nexus 9300v on AMD CPU
* Add complete set of libvirt parameters to NXOS Vagrantfile template
* Enable LLDP on all non-management interfaces on vSRX
