# Changes in Release 0.7

## New Configuration Modules

* [EIGRP configuration module](../module/eigrp.md)

## Changes to Existing Configuration Modules

* BGP IPv6 address family is now configured as part of BGP configuration process. There are no additional configuration parameters; IPv6 AF is configured when an IBGP neighbor has an IPv6 address on a loopback interface or when an EBGP neighbor has an IPv6 address on a directly-connected link. [More details](../module/bgp.md#ipv6-support)...
* [BGP community propagation](../module/bgp.md#bgp-communities-propagation) is controlled with **bgp.community** parameter.
* **bgp.advertise_loopback** parameter controls BGP advertisement of loopback prefix (implemented on all platforms). [More details](../module/bgp.md#advertised-bgp-prefixes)...
* **bgp.originate** parameter generates additional BGP prefixes supported by static route to *null* interface (IOS only at the moment). [More details](../module/bgp.md#advertised-bgp-prefixes)...
* **ospf.reference_bandwidth** sets OSPF auto-cost reference bandwidth in Mbps for the whole network or for an individual node (and handles unit conversion for Junos and NXOS). [More details](../module/ospf.md#global-parameters)...
* IS-IS P2P mode is now used on all P2P links (not just unnumbered interfaces). There are no configuration parameters associated with this feature.

## Changes to *netsim-tools* utilities

* **initial-config.ansible** playbook (**[netlab initial](../netlab/initial.md)** since release 0.8) takes **modlist** external variable which can be used to narrow down the list of configuration modules configured on network devices.

## Other Changes

* Static typing of Python code
* **mypy** tests
