# Changes in Release 0.9

## Topology Graphs

[**netlab create**](../netlab/create.md) command can create *graphviz*[^1] .DOT files that can be used to draw:

* A graph of physical connections (nodes and links)
* A graph of autonomous systems, nodes, and BGP sessions

[^1]: *graphviz* is an excellent graphing tool that takes graph specification in text format, performs somewhat decent auto-placement and draws the graph in a number of output formats (including JPEG, PNG, and PDF).

## Transformed Lab Topology in YAML or JSON Format

[**netlab create**](../netlab/create.md) command can output the transformed lab topology (nodes, links, defaults...) in YAML or JSON format for use in third-party tools.

## Generic Output Framework

You can specify desired output format(s) in [**netlab create**](../netlab/create.md) command, including:

* Virtualization provider configuration file
* Ansible inventory in various formats
* Topology graph in DOT format (physical topology or BGP sessions)
* YAML or JSON printout of transformed topology.

*netsim-tools* uses an extensible output framework implemented with dynamically loaded Python modules allowing you to add your own output formats.

## Other Changes

* Undocumented **netlab transform** command introduced in release 0.8 has been removed and replaced with generic output framework within **netlab create** command.

*python-box* release 5.4.0 brought good and bad news:

* It implemented *mypy* hints forcing me to cleanup the static typing hints and fix odd bits of code.
* Unfortunately it also borked the *setdefaults* method. All calls to *setdefaults* have been replaced with more explicit alternatives.
