# Changes in Release 1.0.x

## New Devices

* [Stefano Sasso](https://github.com/ssasso) contributed support for Mikrotik RouterOS and VyOS devices. Both device types support IPv4, IPv6, OSPF and BGP. [More details...](../platforms.md)
* [Pete Crocker](https://www.linkedin.com/in/petercrocker/) contributed support for Fortinet devices. You can configure IPv4, IPv6 and OSPF. [More details...](../platforms.md) and [caveats](caveats.md#fortinet-fortios).
* Added Vagrant box names for IOSv, CSR and vSRX on VirtualBox. You still have to build the boxes, but at least you won't have to change the default settings.

## New Functionality in Release 1.0.4

* Links without IP addressing ([set **prefix** to *false*](links.md#link-attributes)) -- contributed by [Stefano Sasso](https://github.com/ssasso)

## New Functionality in Release 1.0.3

* Skip devices that cannot be configured (SR Linux and Fortinet as of release 1.0.3) during **[netlab initial](../netlab/initial.md)** or **[netlab up](../netlab/up.md)** configuration process.
* Execute [configuration-specific task list](contribute.md#configuring-the-device) to configure devices that cannot use template-based configuration.

## New Functionality in Release 1.0.2

* You can [set node attributes on all members in a custom group](../groups.md#setting-node-data-in-groups) with the **node_data** group attribute.
* [BGP module](../module/bgp.md) creates [custom groups based on node AS numbers](../groups.md#automatic-bgp-groups).
* Experimental release of [custom plugins](../plugins.md). I don't expect the plugin structure to change (much), but there is no well-defined API to set data structures in the rest of the *netsim* code (yet).

## New Functionality in Release 1.0.1

* [Custom groups](../groups.md) can be specified in topology file to create custom inventory groups or set inventory group variables.
* Custom groups can specify custom configuration templates that are deployed during the **[netlab up](../netlab/up.md)** process.
* **quiet** CLI flag sets Ansible STDOUT callback to **dense** to minimize the clutter generated by Ansible playbooks invoked by **netlab initial**, **netlab config** or **netlab up** commands.
* **debug** flag of **netlab up** and **netlab down** commands can be used to display commands that would be executed without executing them.

## New Functionality in Release 1.0

* **[netlab up](../netlab/up.md)** enables LLDP passthrough on Linux bridges created with *libvirt* Vagrant plugin.

## Bug Fixes

* Add *no attribute change on route reflection* configuration to Arista EOS BGP template (1.0.4)
* BGP module crashed in a lab with `stub` links (1.0.3)
* Vagrant 2.2 uses QEMU sessions on Fedora, resulting in inability to create virtual networks. Disable QEMU sessions in libvirt Vagrantfile template. (1.0.3 -- found by Leo Kirchner)
* IOS XE uses **no ip domain lookup** instead of **no ip domain-lookup**. (1.0.3 -- contributed by [Stefano Sasso](https://github.com/ssasso))

## Cleanup

* Moved platform-specific caveats into a separate document (contributed by [Pete Crocker](https://www.linkedin.com/in/petercrocker/))
* Added tutorial links
* Cleaned up lab installation instructions
* Remove obsolete CLI commands and related documentation
* Remove Ubuntu installation Ansible playbook (replaced by **netlab install**)
