# Changes in Release 1.1

If you wrote custom Jinja2 templates or Python plugins, you might want to read the [breaking changes](#breaking-changes) section first.

## New Functionality in Release 1.1.2

* [Containerlab installation script](../netlab/install.md)
* [System and interface MTU](../links.md#changing-mtu)
* [Configurable VM memory and CPU settings](../nodes.md#node-attributes)
* [Configurable BGP cluster ID](../module/bgp.md#node-configuration-parameters)
* [Router ID calculations](../example/addressing-tutorial.md#using-built-in-address-pools) for IPv6-only devices and [configurable router ID](../module/ospf.md#node-parameters)
* [Hosts and default gateways](../links.md#hosts-and-default-gateways)
* [Static loopback addresses](../nodes.md#node-attributes)
* [Cumulus Linux 5.0 support](../platforms.md) (configuration via NVUE)
* BGP graphs can [show RR-client sessions as directed arrows](../outputs/graph.md)
* Building [vEOS](../labs/eos.md) and [Nexus 9300v](../labs/nxos.md) libvirt boxes has been significantly simplified with **netlab libvirt package** command
* Proof-of-concept [EVPN](../module/evpn.md) and [SRv6](../module/srv6.md) modules

## New Functionality in Release 1.1.1

* Cumulus VX: unnumbered IPv4 interfaces
* Cumulus VX: support for EBGP sessions over unnumbered IPv4 interfaces
* OVS bridge support in *containerlab* provider

## New Functionality in Release 1.1

* Layer-2-only address pools
* Layer-2-only interfaces on numbered or unnumbered links
* Unnumbered interfaces attached to numbered links
* Per-protocol unnumbered links (example: IPv4 prefix + IPv6 LLA)
* Specifying node IP address as N-th IP address on the link
* Multiple attachments of a node to the same link (use cases: inter-VRF back-to-back links or bridging loops)
* BFD configuration module (contributed by [Jeroen van Bemmel](https://github.com/jbemmel))
* BFD support for IS-IS and OSPF
* IS-IS over unnumbered multi-access links
* Device capability checks: unnumbered interfaces, OSPF and IS-IS over unnumbered links
* Linux bridges are used to implement multi-access links in *containerlab* (contributed by [Jeroen van Bemmel](https://github.com/jbemmel))

## Major Code Changes

* Nodes data structure has been changed from a list to a dictionary. The change impacts plugins written for release 1.0.x that traverse **nodes** data structure.
* Link data structure has been changed -- nodes connected to a link (previously dictionary keys) are now collected in **interfaces** list.
* Final node data structure has been changed -- **links** (list of interfaces) have been renamed to **interfaces**
* BFD, OSPF, and IS-IS configuration modules calculate interface state in Python code, significantly simplifying Jinja2 device configuration templates.
* IPAM code refactoring -- unifying address handling on all links and adding new functionality:

	* Layer-2-only pools, links, and interfaces
	* Unnumbered multi-access links. Standard IPv6 feature (LLA), might not work for IPv4 on all platforms (depends on platform implementation quality).
	* Per-address-family unnumbered interfaces
	* Unnumbered interfaces on numbered or layer-2-only links

* Provider-specific device settings have been moved into **devices** dictionary (release 1.1.2)
* Tons of new test cases to stress-test IPAM code and increase code coverage

## Bug Fixes in Release 1.1.2

* *netsim-tools* requires Python 3.7 or later
* Static hostnames on Junos
* Wait for eth1/1 interface to appear before starting Nexus OS configuration
* Add a check for gNMI plugin

## Earlier Bug Fixes

* Limit Linux bridge name to 15 characters (1.1.1)
* Prefer **netsim_console_connection** Ansible variable over **ansible_connection** in **netlab connect** to connect to devices that use less common connection plugins. 
* Set Fortinet OSPF Area ID
* Fix "unnumbered IPv4 interfaces" flags -- they don't work on IOSv, IS-IS on vSRX and SR/OS works on P2P links
* Check that the BGP AS number is an integer
* **netlab down** should have the same CLI options as **netlab up** or **netlab create**

## Documentation Fixes

* Describe automated tests
* Change minimum Ansible version recommendation
* Fix BFD platform support table

## Breaking Changes

Don't bother with this section if you're not using custom configuration templates or plugins.

* **links** list in node data (which is also what you get in Ansible inventory) has been renamed to **interfaces**. You'll have to change most device configuration templates. Apologize for the inconvenience; we had to bite that bullet sooner or later.
* **topology.links** and **topology.nodes** changed. You will have to rewrite any plugins you developed for release 1.0. Fortunately, that's pretty easy to do, and the new data structures are easier to work with.
* **ipv4** and **ipv6** interface attributes could be an IP address or a boolean value (for unnumbered/LLA interfaces), requiring additional checks in device configuration templates. You can ignore this change if you're not using unnumbered interfaces.

## Cleanup

* Removed ancient (release 0.1) management network addressing parameters
* ArcOS is no longer supported by *netsim-tools* -- technical documentation is not available online, the VM image cannot be downloaded, and the contributor of this platform is no longer working at Arrcus.
