# Changes in Release 1.7

```eval_rst
.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:
```

## New Functionality

(Release-1.7.0)=
### Release 1.7.0

* Add the `--show` option to the **[netlab connect](../netlab/connect.md)** command to have a consistent cross-device way of executing show commands.

**New and improved plugins:**

* The [**fabric** plugin](../plugins/fabric.md) generates a whole leaf-and-spine fabric topology from a few parameters.
* The [**bgp.domain** plugin](../plugins/bgp.domain.md) allows you to create topologies with multiple independent devices or sites using the same BGP AS number.
* The [**bgp.policy** plugin](../plugins/bgp.policy.md) supports AS-path prepending on Arista EOS, Aruba AOS-CX, Cisco CSR 1000v, Cisco IOSv, Cumulus Linux, FRR

**Platform enhancements:**

* **vptx** device supports the vJunosEvolved release 23.2R1-S1.8 (or later). [Older releases no longer work](release-1.7.0-breaking), you'll have to rebuild your Vagrant boxes.
* **bgp.session**: implement BFD, BGP timers, and passive BGP for Junos devices (vMX, vSRX, vPTX)
* **bgp.session**: implement AS-path manipulation, default route origination, TTL security, passive BGP peers, MD5 passwords, and BGP timers on Cisco NexusOS
* MPLS LDP on Nokia SR Linux
* Change the default FRR release to 9.1.0

**Documentation improvements:**

* [Plugin development documentation](../dev/plugins.md)
* [Document debugging options](dev-transform-debugging)

**Internal data validation changes:**

* Streamline common data type validation
* User-defined data types (example: VLAN definition)
* Add `_namespace` parameter to user-defined types to pull in parameters from other objects (example: link parameter in VRF)
* Replace module `extra` attributes with data type validation `_requires` functionality
* Add `_required` flag to check mandatory attributes
* Add `_subtype` dictionary validation parameter to trigger recursive validation of **vrfs** and **vlans** attributes
* Validate keys in a dictionary with the `_keytype` attribute
* Add _include defaults at parent level_ functionality, use it to define VRF and VLAN data types as global attributes
* Cleanup data type validation in VLAN and VRF modules

For more details, read the [](../dev/validation.md)

## Breaking changes

(release-1.7.0-breaking)=
### Release 1.7.0

* Old vJunosEvolved (`vptx`) releases don't work with *netlab* release 1.7.0. In those releases, the vJunos virtual machine needed four additional interfaces for internal PFE and RPIO links. vJunosEvolved release 23.2R1-S1.8 implemented those links with intra-VM links. As there's no reasonably sane way to support both architectures without confusing everyone, we decided to adopt the new architecture -- a decision that breaks old Vagrant boxes.
* **extra_attributes** can no longer be used. This parameter has been deprecated in release 1.5.0 and removed from documentation in release 1.6.4. Supported ways of adding custom attributes are described in [](../extend-attributes.md).

## Bug Fixes

### Bug Fixes in Release 1.7.0

* Cleanup the generation of module supported_on lists (#933)
* [Validate error printouts](../dev/tests.md) in the `test_error_cases` test harness (#936)
* Reorder steps early in the topology transformation process
* Add the `expand_topology` plugin hook to support plugins that modify lab topology.

## Documentation Fixes

### Documentation Fixes in Release 1.7.0

* Remove mentions of 'attributes specified as lists' in [](../dev/validation.md)
