# Changes in Release 1.8

```eval_rst
.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:
```

## New Functionality

(release-1.8.1)=
### Release 1.8.1

**New device features:**

* The default Arista cEOS container version has been changed to 4.31.2F.

(release-1.8.0)=
### Release 1.8.0

* **netlab up** command can [reload saved device configurations](netlab-up-reload) instead of starting the initial device configuration process.
* [DHCP configuration module](module-dhcp) implements DHCP clients, DHCP servers, and DHCP relays for IPv4 and IPv6.
* Lab topology can include control plane- and network services [daemons](platform-daemons) running in Linux containers.
* [BGP configuration module](module-bgp) supports 4-octet BGP AS numbers and [large BGP communities](bgp-community-propagation).
* [Validation plugins](validate-plugin) allow you to write more powerful validation tests without creating complex Jinja2 templates
* [IBGP sessions](bgp-ibgp-sessions) to routing daemons running on Linux VMs or containers can be established with external-facing IP addresses (not just remote loopbacks).
* You can set [_netlab_ defaults](defaults) from the [environment variables](defaults-env)
* You can build Docker containers for the [supported daemons](platform-daemons) with the **[netlab clab build](netlab-clab-build)** command
* [Configuration template search paths and filenames](dev-config-deploy-paths) are no longer hardcoded. Most can be configured in [system defaults](defaults) using **defaults.paths** dictionary.

**New devices and daemons:**

* [BIRD Internet Routing Daemon](platform-daemons) with [OSPF](ospf-platform) and [BGP](bgp-platform) support, including [minimal **bgp.session** support](bgp-session-platforms).
* [dnsmasq DHCP server](platform-daemons)

**New device features:**

* [DHCP clients](dhcp-platform) on Cisco IOS, Arista EOS, Cumulus Linux, and Ubuntu VMs
* [DHCP servers](dhcp-platform) on Cisco IOS, Arista EOS, dnsmasq, and Ubuntu VMs
* VRF-aware DHCP server on Cisco IOS XE
* [DHCP relays](dhcp-platform) on Cisco IOS, Arista EOS, Cumulus Linux, and Ubuntu VMs
* Inter-VRF DHCP relay on Arista EOS and Cisco IOS XE
* FRR can use the **neighbor local-as** command to create a fake IBGP session.

**Minor improvements:**

* Node- and group data can include any parameter starting with `ansible_` or `netlab_`, making overriding Ansible variables for individual nodes easier.
* Use physical interface for IBGP sessions with BGP daemons running on hosts.

**Integration tests:**

Release 1.8.0 includes improved BGP, OSPFv2, and OSPFv3 integration tests with automated validation.

## Breaking changes

(release-1.8.0-breaking)=
### Release 1.8.0

* The default MTU on Cumulus Linux VMs has been changed to 1500 bytes to ensure OSPFv2/OSPFv3 interoperability with other devices.
* The **netlab collect** command no longer creates subdirectories with configuration files for Cumulus Linux devices. FRR configuration is stored in `$nodename.cfg`, **ifupdown** configuration in `$nodename-interfaces`, and FRR daemons in `$nodename-frr.conf`.
* The **stub** link role no longer results in a passive IGP interface or BGP prefix advertisement. Use ***protocol*.passive** and **bgp.advertise** link- or interface attributes instead.
* **groups.node_data** attribute is deprecated. _netlab_ generates a warning if you use it; future releases might throw an error.
* `net-tools` (`arp`, `route`, `ifconfig`) are no longer installed by default on Ubuntu virtual machines as their installation increases the lab setup time ([more details](linux-ubuntu-package)). Use `ip neigh`, `ip route`, `ip addr` and `ip link`. If you rely on `net-tools`, add the following line to your [netlab defaults](defaults-user-file):

```
devices.linux.group_vars.netlab_net_tools: True
```

* [LLDP is no longer enabled on Ubuntu virtual machines](linux-lldp) by default as the installation of the LLDP service increases the lab setup time ([more details](linux-ubuntu-package)). If you want to have LLDP running on all Linux virtual machines in your labs, add the following line to your [netlab defaults](defaults-user-file):

```
devices.linux.group_vars.netlab_lldp_enable: True
```

## Bug Fixes

### Bug Fixes in Release 1.8.0

* Make common error header optional when calling log.fatal
* Unify configuration collection from FRR and Cumulus Linux
* Collect Cumulus Linux configuration into the main output directory
* Don't prettify YAML output values that are not structured
* ArubaCX EVPN VRF w/o L3VNI
* Set LIBVIRT environment variables to have a consistent box-building environment
* Replace Jinja2 logic when generating host-to-IP mappings with Ansible variable
* Retain the order of configuration module deployment in the `initial-config` playbook
* Implement warning-level error messages
* Improve logging and error reporting in the 'netlab libvirt package' command.
* Adapt to stricter IPv4 address checks introduced in **netaddr** 1.1.0
* Avoid overloaded Ansible variable name
* Add netlab directory to shell search path
* Use shared task lists to deploy config templates with the `netlab config` command.
* `netlab initial` could not configure the module(s) specified in the `--module` parameter
* Consider the lab topology directory and current directory when searching for configuration templates.

## Documentation Fixes

### Documentation Fixes in Release 1.8.0

* Changed documentation theme colors and dark mode
* Better description of custom group Ansible variables
* RouterOS CHR upload limits and trial license usage. 
* Describe the handling of physical interface attributes on VLAN access links
* Slightly rewritten vEOS Vagrant box configuration instructions
* Add missing 'netlab show' commands to help file, fix typos
