<!--
# Development Notes

This is development branch for what might become release 0.7 or release 0.6.4 (depending on how many changes we'll accumulate in this release).

Changes from release 0.6.3 ([more details](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/dev_0.7/release/0.6x.html)):

* Static typing in Python code and **mypy** tests
* **bgp.advertise_loopback** parameter to disable loopback prefix advertisements
* **bgp.originate** node parameter to originate additional prefixes
* **ospf.reference_bandwidth** global/node parameter to set the OSPF reference bandwidth
-->

# Overview

*netsim-tools* are bringing infrastructure-as-code concepts to networking labs. You'll describe your high-level network topology and routing design in a YAML file, and the tools in this repository will

* Create *Vagrantfile* configuration file for *virtualbox* or *libvirt* environment
* Create *containerlab* configuration file
* Create Ansible inventory and configuration file
* Create IPv4 and IPv6 addressing plan and OSPF, EIGRP, IS-IS, and BGP routing design
* Configure IPv4, IPv6, LLDP, OSPF, EIGRP, IS-IS, BGP, or SR-MPLS on your lab devices.

Instead of wasting time creating lab topology in a GUI and configuring boring details, you'll start with a lab preconfigured according to your specifications.

## Releases

* Latest release: [release_0.7](https://github.com/ipspace/netsim-tools/releases/tag/release_0.7) (read [release notes](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/release/0.7.html))
* If you find bugs in the 0.7 release, please report them and use the [latest 0.6 release](https://github.com/ipspace/netsim-tools/releases/tag/release_0.6.3).

More details in [release notes](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/release.html).

You might also want to [read the documentation](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/), and [installation guidelines](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html).

## An overview of tools:

**create-topology**
: Creates a full-blown network topology, Vagrantfile and Ansible inventory from a simple list of nodes and links. [More details](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/create-topology.html)

**initial-config.ansible**
: Using topology data generated by **create-topology** and default device configuration templates configures common device parameters, protocols that should have been enabled (LLDP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP, SR-MPLS), enables interfaces, and configures IP addresses on interfaces. [More details](https://netsim-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configs.html)

**config.ansible**
: Applies any Jinja2 configuration templates to network devices.

**create-config.ansible**
: Ansible playbook that creates devices configuration snippets (including configuration module snippets) without deploying them on network devices.

**collect-configs.ansible**
: Using Ansible fact gathering or other device-specific Ansible modules, collects device configurations and saves them in specified directory (default: **config**).

**display-neighbors.ansible**
: Using Ansible fact gathering collect device neighbor data (usually LLDP neighbors) and displays them. Use YAML Ansible output callback for maximum readability.

**connect.sh**
: Use SSH or **docker exec** to connect to a lab device using device names, management network IP addresses (**ansible_host**), SSH port, and username/passwords from Ansible inventory. Ideal when you use centralized Vagrant environments and want to connect to the devices while being in playbook development directory.

## Libvirt-specific tools

**enable-lldp.sh**
: Given libvirt network name, change group_fwd_mask for the corresponding Linux bridge to enable LLDP passthrough across the Linux bridge.
