# Tool Overview

The following programs, scripts and Ansible playbooks are included with *netsim-tools*:

## Creating the Lab

**create-topology**
: Creates a full-blown network topology, Vagrantfile and Ansible inventory from a simple list of nodes and links. [More details...](create-topology.md)

## Deploying Device Configuration

**initial-config.ansible**
: Configures common device parameters using topology data generated by **create-topology** and default device configuration templates. Configured parameters include hostname, LLDP, interface admin state, MAC and IP addresses, and optional routing protocols. [More details...](configs.md)

**create-config.ansible**
: Ansible playbook that creates devices configuration snippets (including configuration module snippets) without deploying them on network devices.

## Working with Lab Devices

**connect.sh**
: Use Ansible inventory connect to a lab device using its inventory name. Device IP address (**ansible_host**) and username/passwords are retrieved from Ansible inventory. Ideal when you use centralized Vagrant environments and want to connect to the devices while being in playbook development directory.

**display-neighbors.ansible**
: Using Ansible fact gathering collect device neighbor data (usually LLDP neighbors) and displays them. Use YAML Ansible output callback for maximum readability.

**config.ansible**
: Applies any set of custom Jinja2 configuration templates to network devices. Includes support for platform-specific configuration templates.

**collect-configs.ansible**
: Using Ansible fact gathering or other device-specific Ansible modules, collects device configurations and saves them in specified directory (default: **config**).

## Libvirt Tools

**enable-lldp.sh**
: Given libvirt network name, change group_fwd_mask for the corresponding Linux bridge to enable LLDP passthrough across the Linux bridge.
